docs/react/api-angular/generators/application.md, before:

---
title: '@nrwl/angular:application generator'
description: 'Creates an Angular application.'
---

# @nrwl/angular:application

Creates an Angular application.

## Usage

```bash
nx generate application ...
```

```bash
nx g app ... # same
```

By default, Nx will search for `application` in the default collection provisioned in `workspace.json`.

You can specify the collection explicitly as follows:

```bash
nx g @nrwl/angular:application ...
```

Show what will be generated without writing to disk:

```bash
nx g application ... --dry-run
```

## Options

### backendProject

Type: `string`

Backend project that provides data to this application. This sets up `proxy.config.json`.

### directory

Type: `string`

The directory of the new application.

### e2eTestRunner

Default: `cypress`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `protractor`, `cypress`, `none`

Test runner to use for end to end (e2e) tests.

### host

Type: `string`

The name of the host application that the remote application will be consumed by.

### inlineStyle

Alias(es): s

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Specifies if the style will be in the ts file.

### inlineTemplate

Alias(es): t

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Specifies if the template will be in the ts file.

### linter

Default: `eslint`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `eslint`, `none`

The tool to use for running lint checks.

### mfe

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a Module Federation configuration for the application

### mfeType

Default: `remote`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `host`, `remote`

Type of application to generate the Module Federation configuration for.

### name

Type: `string`

The name of the application.

### port

Type: `number`

The port at which the remote application should be served.

### prefix

Alias(es): p

Type: `string`

The prefix to apply to generated selectors.

### remotes

Type: `array`

A list of remote application names that the host application should consume.

### routing

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a routing module.

### setParserOptionsProject

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether or not to configure the ESLint "parserOptions.project" option. We do not do this by default for lint performance reasons.

### skipFormat

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip formatting files.

### skipPackageJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Do not add dependencies to `package.json`.

### skipTests

Alias(es): S

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip creating spec files.

### standaloneConfig

Type: `boolean`

Split the project configuration into `<projectRoot>/project.json` rather than including it inside `workspace.json`.

### strict

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Create an application with stricter type checking and build optimization options.

### style

Default: `css`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `css`, `scss`, `sass`, `less`

The file extension to be used for style files.

### tags

Type: `string`

Add tags to the application (used for linting).

### unitTestRunner

Default: `jest`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `karma`, `jest`, `none`

Test runner to use for unit tests.

### viewEncapsulation

Type: `string`

Possible values: `Emulated`, `Native`, `None`

Specifies the view encapsulation strategy.

Commit message:

feat(angular): add support for configuring tailwind in existing and new apps and buildable/publishable libs

docs/react/api-angular/generators/application.md, after:

---
title: '@nrwl/angular:application generator'
description: 'Creates an Angular application.'
---

# @nrwl/angular:application

Creates an Angular application.

## Usage

```bash
nx generate application ...
```

```bash
nx g app ... # same
```

By default, Nx will search for `application` in the default collection provisioned in `workspace.json`.

You can specify the collection explicitly as follows:

```bash
nx g @nrwl/angular:application ...
```

Show what will be generated without writing to disk:

```bash
nx g application ... --dry-run
```

## Options

### name (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The name of the application.

### addTailwind

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether to configure TailwindCSS for the application.

### backendProject

Type: `string`

Backend project that provides data to this application. This sets up `proxy.config.json`.

### directory

Type: `string`

The directory of the new application.

### e2eTestRunner

Default: `cypress`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `protractor`, `cypress`, `none`

Test runner to use for end to end (e2e) tests.

### host

Type: `string`

The name of the host application that the remote application will be consumed by.

### inlineStyle

Alias(es): s

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Specifies if the style will be in the ts file.

### inlineTemplate

Alias(es): t

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Specifies if the template will be in the ts file.

### linter

Default: `eslint`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `eslint`, `none`

The tool to use for running lint checks.

### mfe

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a Module Federation configuration for the application

### mfeType

Default: `remote`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `host`, `remote`

Type of application to generate the Module Federation configuration for.

### port

Type: `number`

The port at which the remote application should be served.

### prefix

Alias(es): p

Type: `string`

The prefix to apply to generated selectors.

### remotes

Type: `array`

A list of remote application names that the host application should consume.

### routing

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a routing module.

### setParserOptionsProject

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether or not to configure the ESLint "parserOptions.project" option. We do not do this by default for lint performance reasons.

### skipFormat

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip formatting files.

### skipPackageJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Do not add dependencies to `package.json`.

### skipTests

Alias(es): S

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip creating spec files.

### standaloneConfig

Type: `boolean`

Split the project configuration into `<projectRoot>/project.json` rather than including it inside `workspace.json`.

### strict

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Create an application with stricter type checking and build optimization options.

### style

Default: `css`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `css`, `scss`, `sass`, `less`

The file extension to be used for style files.

### tags

Type: `string`

Add tags to the application (used for linting).

### unitTestRunner

Default: `jest`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `karma`, `jest`, `none`

Test runner to use for unit tests.

### viewEncapsulation

Type: `string`

Possible values: `Emulated`, `Native`, `None`

Specifies the view encapsulation strategy.
