docs/react/api-angular/generators/library.md, before:

---
title: '@nrwl/angular:library generator'
description: 'Creates an Angular library.'
---

# @nrwl/angular:library

Creates an Angular library.

## Usage

```bash
nx generate library ...
```

```bash
nx g lib ... # same
```

By default, Nx will search for `library` in the default collection provisioned in `workspace.json`.

You can specify the collection explicitly as follows:

```bash
nx g @nrwl/angular:library ...
```

Show what will be generated without writing to disk:

```bash
nx g library ... --dry-run
```

## Options

### name (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The name of the library.

### addModuleSpec

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Add a module spec file.

### addTailwind

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether to configure TailwindCSS for the application. It can only be used with buildable and publishable libraries. Non-buildable libraries will use the application's Tailwind configuration.

### buildable

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a buildable library.

### compilationMode

Type: `string`

Possible values: `full`, `partial`

Specifies the compilation mode to use. If not specified, it will default to `partial` for publishable libraries and to `full` for buildable libraries. The `full` value can not be used for publishable libraries.

### directory

Type: `string`

A directory where the library is placed.

### importPath

Type: `string`

The library name used to import it, like `@myorg/my-awesome-lib`. Must be a valid npm name.

### lazy

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Add `RouterModule.forChild` when set to true, and a simple array of routes when set to false.

### linter

Default: `eslint`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `eslint`, `none`

The tool to use for running lint checks.

### parentModule

Type: `string`

Update the router configuration of the parent module using `loadChildren` or `children`, depending on what `lazy` is set to.

### prefix

Alias(es): p

Type: `string`

The prefix to apply to generated selectors.

### publishable

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a publishable library.

### routing

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Add router configuration. See `lazy` for more information.

### setParserOptionsProject

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether or not to configure the ESLint "parserOptions.project" option. We do not do this by default for lint performance reasons.

### simpleModuleName

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Keep the module name simple (when using `--directory`).

### skipFormat

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip formatting files.

### skipPackageJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Do not add dependencies to `package.json`.

### skipTsConfig

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Do not update `tsconfig.json` for development experience.

### standaloneConfig

Type: `boolean`

Split the project configuration into `<projectRoot>/project.json` rather than including it inside `workspace.json`.

### strict

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Create a library with stricter type checking and build optimization options.

### tags

Type: `string`

Add tags to the library (used for linting).

### unitTestRunner

Default: `jest`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `karma`, `jest`, `none`

Test runner to use for unit tests.

Commit message:

feat(angular): add option to skip module creation #7806

docs/react/api-angular/generators/library.md, after:

---
title: '@nrwl/angular:library generator'
description: 'Creates an Angular library.'
---

# @nrwl/angular:library

Creates an Angular library.

## Usage

```bash
nx generate library ...
```

```bash
nx g lib ... # same
```

By default, Nx will search for `library` in the default collection provisioned in `workspace.json`.

You can specify the collection explicitly as follows:

```bash
nx g @nrwl/angular:library ...
```

Show what will be generated without writing to disk:

```bash
nx g library ... --dry-run
```

## Options

### name (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The name of the library.

### addModuleSpec

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Add a module spec file.

### addTailwind

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether to configure TailwindCSS for the application. It can only be used with buildable and publishable libraries. Non-buildable libraries will use the application's Tailwind configuration.

### buildable

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a buildable library.

### compilationMode

Type: `string`

Possible values: `full`, `partial`

Specifies the compilation mode to use. If not specified, it will default to `partial` for publishable libraries and to `full` for buildable libraries. The `full` value can not be used for publishable libraries.

### directory

Type: `string`

A directory where the library is placed.

### importPath

Type: `string`

The library name used to import it, like `@myorg/my-awesome-lib`. Must be a valid npm name.

### lazy

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Add `RouterModule.forChild` when set to true, and a simple array of routes when set to false.

### linter

Default: `eslint`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `eslint`, `none`

The tool to use for running lint checks.

### parentModule

Type: `string`

Update the router configuration of the parent module using `loadChildren` or `children`, depending on what `lazy` is set to.

### prefix

Alias(es): p

Type: `string`

The prefix to apply to generated selectors.

### publishable

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a publishable library.

### routing

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Add router configuration. See `lazy` for more information.

### setParserOptionsProject

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether or not to configure the ESLint "parserOptions.project" option. We do not do this by default for lint performance reasons.

### simpleModuleName

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Keep the module name simple (when using `--directory`).

### skipFormat

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip formatting files.

### skipModule

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether to skip the creation of a default module when generating the library.

### skipPackageJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Do not add dependencies to `package.json`.

### skipTsConfig

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Do not update `tsconfig.json` for development experience.

### standaloneConfig

Type: `boolean`

Split the project configuration into `<projectRoot>/project.json` rather than including it inside `workspace.json`.

### strict

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Create a library with stricter type checking and build optimization options.

### tags

Type: `string`

Add tags to the library (used for linting).

### unitTestRunner

Default: `jest`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `karma`, `jest`, `none`

Test runner to use for unit tests.
