docs/shared/devkit-and-nx-plugins.md, before:

# Nx Plugins and Devkit

Nx is a VSCode of build tools. The core of Nx is project and task graph creation and analysis, orchestration and
execution of tasks, computation caching, and code generation. The extended functionality of Nx is provided
by [Nx plugins](#nx-plugins) built on top of the underlying [Nx Devkit](#nx-devkit).

## Nx plugins

Nx plugins are npm packages that contain generators and executors to extend the capabilities of an Nx workspace.

Plugins have:

- **Generators**

  - Generators automate making changes to the file system.
  - Anytime you run `nx generate ...`, you invoke a generator.
  - They are used to create/update applications, libraries, components, and more.

- **Executors**

  - Executors define how to perform an action on a project.
  - Anytime you run `nx run ...` (or `nx test`, `nx build`), you invoke an executor.
  - They are used to build applications and libraries, test them, lint them, and more.

All of the core plugins are written using Nx Devkit, and you can use the same utilities to write your own generators and
executors.

The [Workspace Plugin](/{{framework}}/workspace/nrwl-workspace-overview) contains executors and generators that are
included in every Nx workspace for you to use, and are used with other plugins.

The Nx team maintains a core set of plugins for many application and tooling frameworks. You can also extend an Nx
workspace by writing your own plugins. The [Nx Plugin](/{{framework}}/nx-plugin/overview) plugin provides guidance on
how you can build your own custom plugins.

### Listing Nx plugins

Nx provides a list of installed and available plugins from Nrwl and community maintainers. Plugins maintained by Nrwl
maintained are scoped under the `@nrwl` organization.

Use the `nx list` command to display all registered plugins.

Using the `nx list [plugin]` command displays the generators and executors provided by that package.

## Nx Devkit

The Nx Devkit is the underlying technology used to customize Nx to support different technologies and custom use-cases.
It contains many utility functions for reading and writing files, updating configuration, working with Abstract Syntax
Trees(ASTs), and more.

### Pay as you go

As with most things in Nx, the core of Nx Devkit is very simple. It only uses language primitives and immutable
objects (the tree being the only exception). See [Simplest Generator](/{{framework}}/generators/creating-files)
and [Simplest Executor](/{{framework}}/executors/using-builders#simplest-executor) for examples on creating generators
and executors. The [Using Executors](/{{framework}}/executors/using-builders)
and [Using Generators](/{{framework}}/generators/using-schematics) guides also have additional information on executors
and generators.

## Learn more

- [Using Nx Core Without Plugins](/{{framework}}/getting-started/nx-core)
- [Workspace generators](/{{framework}}/generators/workspace-generators)
- [Workspace executors](/{{framework}}/executors/creating-custom-builders)
- [Nx Community Plugins](/community)

Commit message:

feat(core): support for extending project inference capabilities (#8210)

docs/shared/devkit-and-nx-plugins.md, after:

# Nx Plugins and Devkit

Nx is a VSCode of build tools. The core of Nx is project and task graph creation and analysis, orchestration and
execution of tasks, computation caching, and code generation. The extended functionality of Nx is provided
by [Nx plugins](#nx-plugins) built on top of the underlying [Nx Devkit](#nx-devkit).

## Nx plugins

Nx plugins are npm packages that contain generators and executors to extend the capabilities of an Nx workspace.

Plugins have:

- **Generators**

  - Generators automate making changes to the file system.
  - Anytime you run `nx generate ...`, you invoke a generator.
  - They are used to create/update applications, libraries, components, and more.

- **Executors**

  - Executors define how to perform an action on a project.
  - Anytime you run `nx run ...` (or `nx test`, `nx build`), you invoke an executor.
  - They are used to build applications and libraries, test them, lint them, and more.

- **Project Graph Extensions**

  - Plugins can provide a function `processProjectGraph` to add extra edges to the project graph.
  - This allows plugins to influence the behavior of `nx affected` and the dep-graph visualization.
  - See [project graph plugins]('./workspace/project-graph-plugins') for more information.

- **Project Inference Extensions**

  - Plugins can provide an array of glob patterns, `projectFilePatterns` that are used to infer project information.
  - Plugins can provide a function `registerProjectTargets` that takes in one of the matched project files, and returns an object containing inferred targets from the file.
  - This allows plugins to add new projects to the workspace when it doesn't contain workspace.json, and infer extra targets without adding them into project configuration.

All of the core plugins are written using Nx Devkit, and you can use the same utilities to write your own generators and
executors.

The [Workspace Plugin](/{{framework}}/workspace/nrwl-workspace-overview) contains executors and generators that are
included in every Nx workspace for you to use, and are used with other plugins.

The Nx team maintains a core set of plugins for many application and tooling frameworks. You can also extend an Nx
workspace by writing your own plugins. The [Nx Plugin](/{{framework}}/nx-plugin/overview) plugin provides guidance on
how you can build your own custom plugins.

### Listing Nx plugins

Nx provides a list of installed and available plugins from Nrwl and community maintainers. Plugins maintained by Nrwl
maintained are scoped under the `@nrwl` organization.

Use the `nx list` command to display all registered plugins.

Using the `nx list [plugin]` command displays the generators and executors provided by that package.

## Nx Devkit

The Nx Devkit is the underlying technology used to customize Nx to support different technologies and custom use-cases.
It contains many utility functions for reading and writing files, updating configuration, working with Abstract Syntax
Trees(ASTs), and more.

### Pay as you go

As with most things in Nx, the core of Nx Devkit is very simple. It only uses language primitives and immutable
objects (the tree being the only exception). See [Simplest Generator](/{{framework}}/generators/creating-files)
and [Simplest Executor](/{{framework}}/executors/using-builders#simplest-executor) for examples on creating generators
and executors. The [Using Executors](/{{framework}}/executors/using-builders)
and [Using Generators](/{{framework}}/generators/using-schematics) guides also have additional information on executors
and generators.

## Learn more

- [Using Nx Core Without Plugins](/{{framework}}/getting-started/nx-core)
- [Workspace generators](/{{framework}}/generators/workspace-generators)
- [Workspace executors](/{{framework}}/executors/creating-custom-builders)
- [Nx Community Plugins](/community)
