docs/angular/api-web/executors/rollup.md, before:

# @nrwl/web:rollup

Package a library using rollup

Options can be configured in `angular.json` when defining the executor, or when invoking it. Read more about how to configure targets and executors here: https://nx.dev/core-concepts/configuration#targets.

## Options

### entryFile (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The path to the entry file, relative to project.

### outputPath (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The output path of the generated files.

### project (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The path to package.json file.

### tsConfig (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The path to tsconfig file.

### assets

Type: `array`

List of static assets.

### buildableProjectDepsInPackageJsonType

Default: `peerDependencies`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `dependencies`, `peerDependencies`

When updateBuildableProjectDepsInPackageJson is true, this adds dependencies to either `peerDependencies` or `dependencies`

### deleteOutputPath

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Delete the output path before building.

### external

Type: `array`

A list of external modules that will not be bundled (react, react-dom, etc.).

### extractCss

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

CSS files will be extracted to the output folder.

### format

Alias(es): f

Type: `array`

Only build the specified comma-separated formats (esm,umd,cjs)

### globals

Type: `object[]`

A mapping of node modules to their UMD global names. Used by the UMD bundle

#### moduleId

Type: `string`

The node module to map from (e.g. `react-dom`).

#### global

Type: `string`

The global name to map to (e.g. `ReactDOM`).

### rollupConfig

Type: `array[] | string `

Path to a function which takes a rollup config and returns an updated rollup config

### umdName

Type: `string`

The name of your module in UMD format. Defaulted to your project name.

### updateBuildableProjectDepsInPackageJson

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Update buildable project dependencies in package.json

### watch

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Enable re-building when files change.

Commit message:

feat(web): support swc compiler (#7997)

docs/angular/api-web/executors/rollup.md, after:

# @nrwl/web:rollup

Package a library using rollup

Options can be configured in `angular.json` when defining the executor, or when invoking it. Read more about how to configure targets and executors here: https://nx.dev/core-concepts/configuration#targets.

## Options

### entryFile (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The path to the entry file, relative to project.

### outputPath (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The output path of the generated files.

### project (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The path to package.json file.

### tsConfig (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The path to tsconfig file.

### assets

Type: `array`

List of static assets.

### buildableProjectDepsInPackageJsonType

Default: `peerDependencies`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `dependencies`, `peerDependencies`

When updateBuildableProjectDepsInPackageJson is true, this adds dependencies to either `peerDependencies` or `dependencies`

### compiler

Default: `babel`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `babel`, `swc`

Which compiler to use.

### deleteOutputPath

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Delete the output path before building.

### external

Type: `array`

A list of external modules that will not be bundled (react, react-dom, etc.).

### extractCss

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

CSS files will be extracted to the output folder.

### format

Alias(es): f

Type: `array`

Only build the specified comma-separated formats (esm,umd,cjs)

### globals

Type: `object[]`

A mapping of node modules to their UMD global names. Used by the UMD bundle

#### moduleId

Type: `string`

The node module to map from (e.g. `react-dom`).

#### global

Type: `string`

The global name to map to (e.g. `ReactDOM`).

### rollupConfig

Type: `array[] | string `

Path to a function which takes a rollup config and returns an updated rollup config

### umdName

Type: `string`

The name of your module in UMD format. Defaulted to your project name.

### updateBuildableProjectDepsInPackageJson

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Update buildable project dependencies in package.json

### watch

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Enable re-building when files change.
