docs/shared/getting-started/intro.md, before:

# Intro to Nx

Nx is a smart, fast and extensible build system with first class monorepo support and powerful integrations.

## Philosophy

Nx has a similar design philosophy to Visual Studio Code. Code is a powerful text editor, and you can be very productive
with it even if you don't install any extensions. The ecosystem of VSCode's extensions though is what can really level
up your productivity.

Nx is similar. The core of Nx is generic, simple, and unobtrusive. Nx plugins, although very useful for many projects,
are completely optional.

Most examples on this site use Nx plugins. It's just easier to demonstrate many features Nx offers when Nx generates all
the boilerplate. However, the vast majority of the features will work the same way in a workspace with no plugins.

## Getting Started

- [Using Nx without plugins](/getting-started/nx-core) will help you understand the core of Nx.
- [Adding Nx to an existing monorepo](/migration/adding-to-monorepo) will show how to add Nx to an existing monorepo.
- [Mental model](/using-nx/mental-model) is a good starting point for those who like to understand things theoretically first.

If you want to use Nx plugins to really level up your productivity, pick one of the following guides:

- [Nx and TypeScript](/getting-started/nx-and-typescript)
- [Nx and React](/getting-started/nx-and-react)
- [Nx and Angular](/getting-started/nx-and-angular)

Commit message:

docs(core): add core-tutorial link on intro (#9690)

docs/shared/getting-started/intro.md, after:

# Intro to Nx

Nx is a smart, fast and extensible build system with first class monorepo support and powerful integrations.

## Philosophy

Nx has a similar design philosophy to Visual Studio Code. Code is a powerful text editor, and you can be very productive
with it even if you don't install any extensions. The ecosystem of VSCode's extensions though is what can really level
up your productivity.

Nx is similar. The core of Nx is generic, simple, and unobtrusive. Nx plugins, although very useful for many projects,
are completely optional.

Most examples on this site use Nx plugins. It's just easier to demonstrate many features Nx offers when Nx generates all
the boilerplate. However, the vast majority of the features will work the same way in a workspace with no plugins.

## Getting Started

- [Using Nx without plugins](/getting-started/nx-core) will help you understand the core of Nx.
- [Adding Nx to an existing monorepo](/migration/adding-to-monorepo) will show how to add Nx to an existing monorepo.
- [Mental model](/using-nx/mental-model) is a good starting point for those who like to understand things theoretically first.
- [Nx core tutorial](/core-tutorial/01-create-blog) to start learning how to use Nx.

If you want to use Nx plugins to really level up your productivity, pick one of the following guides:

- [Nx and TypeScript](/getting-started/nx-and-typescript)
- [Nx and React](/getting-started/nx-and-react)
- [Nx and Angular](/getting-started/nx-and-angular)
