docs/node/api-node/executors/build.md, before:

# @nrwl/node:build

Build a Node application

Options can be configured in `workspace.json` when defining the executor, or when invoking it. Read more about how to configure targets and executors here: https://nx.dev/core-concepts/configuration#targets.

## Options

### main (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The name of the main entry-point file.

### tsConfig (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The name of the Typescript configuration file.

### additionalEntryPoints

Type: `object[]`

#### entryName

Type: `string`

Name of the additional entry file

#### entryPath

Type: `string`

Path to the additional entry file

### assets

Type: `array`

List of static application assets.

### buildLibsFromSource

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Read buildable libraries from source instead of building them separately.

### externalDependencies

Default: `all`

Type: `string | string[] `

Dependencies to keep external to the bundle. ("all" (default), "none", or an array of module names)

### extractLicenses

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Extract all licenses in a separate file, in the case of production builds only.

### fileReplacements

Type: `object[]`

Replace files with other files in the build.

#### replace

Type: `string`

The file to be replaced.

#### with

Type: `string`

The file to replace with.

### generatePackageJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generates a package.json file with the project's node_module dependencies populated for installing in a container. If a package.json exists in the project's directory, it will be reused with dependencies populated.

### maxWorkers

Type: `number`

Number of workers to use for type checking. (defaults to # of CPUS - 2)

### memoryLimit

Type: `number`

Memory limit for type checking service process in MB. (defaults to 2048)

### optimization

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Defines the optimization level of the build.

### outputPath

Type: `string`

The output path of the generated files.

### poll

Type: `number`

Frequency of file watcher in ms.

### progress

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Log progress to the console while building.

### sourceMap

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Produce source maps.

### statsJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generates a 'stats.json' file which can be analyzed using tools such as: 'webpack-bundle-analyzer' or <https://webpack.github.io/analyse>.

### tsPlugins

Type: `array`

List of TypeScript Compiler Plugins.

### verbose

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Emits verbose output

### watch

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Run build when files change.

### webpackConfig

Type: `array[] | string `

Path to a function which takes a webpack config, context and returns the resulting webpack config

Commit message:

feat(node): add outFileName to build executor
`outFileName` allows the consumers to customize the bundle file name that will be output by Webpack.
Default to `main.js`

ISSUES CLOSED: #4969

docs/node/api-node/executors/build.md, after:

# @nrwl/node:build

Build a Node application

Options can be configured in `workspace.json` when defining the executor, or when invoking it. Read more about how to configure targets and executors here: https://nx.dev/core-concepts/configuration#targets.

## Options

### main (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The name of the main entry-point file.

### tsConfig (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The name of the Typescript configuration file.

### additionalEntryPoints

Type: `object[]`

#### entryName

Type: `string`

Name of the additional entry file

#### entryPath

Type: `string`

Path to the additional entry file

### assets

Type: `array`

List of static application assets.

### buildLibsFromSource

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Read buildable libraries from source instead of building them separately.

### externalDependencies

Default: `all`

Type: `string | string[] `

Dependencies to keep external to the bundle. ("all" (default), "none", or an array of module names)

### extractLicenses

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Extract all licenses in a separate file, in the case of production builds only.

### fileReplacements

Type: `object[]`

Replace files with other files in the build.

#### replace

Type: `string`

The file to be replaced.

#### with

Type: `string`

The file to replace with.

### generatePackageJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generates a package.json file with the project's node_module dependencies populated for installing in a container. If a package.json exists in the project's directory, it will be reused with dependencies populated.

### maxWorkers

Type: `number`

Number of workers to use for type checking. (defaults to # of CPUS - 2)

### memoryLimit

Type: `number`

Memory limit for type checking service process in MB. (defaults to 2048)

### optimization

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Defines the optimization level of the build.

### outFileName

Default: `main.js`

Type: `string`

Name of the main output file. (defaults to 'main.js')

### outputPath

Type: `string`

The output path of the generated files.

### poll

Type: `number`

Frequency of file watcher in ms.

### progress

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Log progress to the console while building.

### sourceMap

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Produce source maps.

### statsJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generates a 'stats.json' file which can be analyzed using tools such as: 'webpack-bundle-analyzer' or <https://webpack.github.io/analyse>.

### tsPlugins

Type: `array`

List of TypeScript Compiler Plugins.

### verbose

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Emits verbose output

### watch

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Run build when files change.

### webpackConfig

Type: `array[] | string `

Path to a function which takes a webpack config, context and returns the resulting webpack config
