docs/react/api-angular/executors/webpack-browser.md, before:

# @nrwl/angular:webpack-browser

Builds a browser application with support for incremental builds and custom webpack configuration.

Options can be configured in `workspace.json` when defining the executor, or when invoking it. Read more about how to configure targets and executors here: https://nx.dev/core-concepts/configuration#targets.

## Options

### index (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

Configures the generation of the application's HTML index.

### main (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The full path for the main entry point to the app, relative to the current workspace.

### outputPath (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The full path for the new output directory, relative to the current workspace. By default, writes output to a folder named dist/ in the current project.

### tsConfig (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The full path for the TypeScript configuration file, relative to the current workspace.

### allowedCommonJsDependencies

Type: `array`

A list of CommonJS packages that are allowed to be used without a build time warning.

### aot

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Build using Ahead of Time compilation.

### assets

Type: `array`

List of static application assets.

### baseHref

Type: `string`

Base url for the application being built.

### budgets

Type: `array`

Budget thresholds to ensure parts of your application stay within boundaries which you set.

### buildOptimizer

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Enables '@angular-devkit/build-optimizer' optimizations when using the 'aot' option.

### commonChunk

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a seperate bundle containing code used across multiple bundles.

### crossOrigin

Default: `none`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `none`, `anonymous`, `use-credentials`

Define the crossorigin attribute setting of elements that provide CORS support.

### deleteOutputPath

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Delete the output path before building.

### deployUrl

Type: `string`

URL where files will be deployed.

### ~~extractCss~~

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

**Deprecated:** Deprecated since version 11.0. No longer required to disable CSS extraction for HMR.

Extract CSS from global styles into '.css' files instead of '.js'.

### extractLicenses

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Extract all licenses in a separate file.

### fileReplacements

Type: `array`

Replace compilation source files with other compilation source files in the build.

### i18nMissingTranslation

Default: `warning`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `warning`, `error`, `ignore`

How to handle missing translations for i18n.

### inlineStyleLanguage

Default: `css`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `css`, `less`, `sass`, `scss`

The stylesheet language to use for the application's inline component styles.

### localize

Type: `boolean | boolean[] `

Translate the bundles in one or more locales.

### namedChunks

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Use file name for lazy loaded chunks.

### ngswConfigPath

Type: `string`

Path to ngsw-config.json.

### optimization

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Enables optimization of the build output. Including minification of scripts and styles, tree-shaking, dead-code elimination, inlining of critical CSS and fonts inlining. For more information, see https://angular.io/guide/workspace-config#optimization-configuration.

### outputHashing

Default: `none`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `none`, `all`, `media`, `bundles`

Define the output filename cache-busting hashing mode.

### poll

Type: `number`

Enable and define the file watching poll time period in milliseconds.

### polyfills

Type: `string`

The full path for the polyfills file, relative to the current workspace.

### preserveSymlinks

Type: `boolean`

Do not use the real path when resolving modules. If unset then will default to `true` if NodeJS option --preserve-symlinks is set.

### progress

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Log progress to the console while building.

### resourcesOutputPath

Type: `string`

The path where style resources will be placed, relative to outputPath.

### scripts

Type: `array`

Global scripts to be included in the build.

### serviceWorker

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generates a service worker config for production builds.

### ~~showCircularDependencies~~

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

**Deprecated:** The recommended method to detect circular dependencies in project code is to use either a lint rule or other external tooling.

Show circular dependency warnings on builds.

### sourceMap

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Output source maps for scripts and styles. For more information, see https://angular.io/guide/workspace-config#source-map-configuration.

### statsJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generates a 'stats.json' file which can be analyzed using tools such as 'webpack-bundle-analyzer'.

### styles

Type: `array`

Global styles to be included in the build.

### subresourceIntegrity

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Enables the use of subresource integrity validation.

### vendorChunk

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a seperate bundle containing only vendor libraries. This option should only used for development.

### verbose

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Adds more details to output logging.

### watch

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Run build when files change.

### webWorkerTsConfig

Type: `string`

TypeScript configuration for Web Worker modules.

Commit message:

chore(angular): support angular 13 (#7161)
* chore(angular): support angular 13

Support Angular 13

chore(angular): support ng 13 next 11

chore(angular): upgrade tslib dep

chore(angular): update package and ng-packagr-lite executors to align with ng-packagr v13

chore(angular): update test snapshots with ts version

fix(angular): buildable lib tsconfig transform test

* chore(angular): sync ng-packagr changes to the package and ng-packagr-lite executors

* chore(angular): add migrations

* chore(angular): rxjs7

* feat(angular): check rxjs version to install

* feat(angular): update jest resolver to resolve esm

* chore(angular): fix version

* chore(angular): support jest-preset-angular

* fix(angular): tests

* fix(angular): fix e2e tests and add .angular to gitignore

* fix(angular): fix jest transformers ignore pattern

* fix(angular): fix node test

* fix(angular): fix workspace test

* fix(angular): import marble utils from jasmine-marbles instead of @nrwl/angular/testing

* feat(angular): update ngrx to 13.0.0-beta.;0

* fix(angular): temporarily skip test with pnpm

* fix(angular): bump jest-preset-angular to fix jest performance issues

* fix(angular): webpack-browser and server schema changes

Co-authored-by: Leosvel Pérez Espinosa <leosvel.perez.espinosa@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Jason Jean <jasonjean1993@gmail.com>

docs/react/api-angular/executors/webpack-browser.md, after:

# @nrwl/angular:webpack-browser

Builds a browser application with support for incremental builds and custom webpack configuration.

Options can be configured in `workspace.json` when defining the executor, or when invoking it. Read more about how to configure targets and executors here: https://nx.dev/core-concepts/configuration#targets.

## Options

### index (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

Configures the generation of the application's HTML index.

### main (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The full path for the main entry point to the app, relative to the current workspace.

### outputPath (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

            The full path for the new output directory, relative to the current workspace.

By default, writes output to a folder named dist/ in the current project.

### tsConfig (_**required**_)

Type: `string`

The full path for the TypeScript configuration file, relative to the current workspace.

### allowedCommonJsDependencies

Type: `array`

A list of CommonJS packages that are allowed to be used without a build time warning.

### aot

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Build using Ahead of Time compilation.

### assets

Type: `array`

List of static application assets.

### baseHref

Type: `string`

Base url for the application being built.

### budgets

Type: `array`

Budget thresholds to ensure parts of your application stay within boundaries which you set.

### buildOptimizer

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Enables '@angular-devkit/build-optimizer' optimizations when using the 'aot' option.

### commonChunk

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a seperate bundle containing code used across multiple bundles.

### crossOrigin

Default: `none`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `none`, `anonymous`, `use-credentials`

Define the crossorigin attribute setting of elements that provide CORS support.

### deleteOutputPath

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Delete the output path before building.

### ~~deployUrl~~

Type: `string`

**Deprecated:** Use "baseHref" option, "APP_BASE_HREF" DI token or a combination of both instead. For more information, see https://angular.io/guide/deployment#the-deploy-url.

URL where files will be deployed.

### extractLicenses

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Extract all licenses in a separate file.

### fileReplacements

Type: `array`

Replace compilation source files with other compilation source files in the build.

### i18nMissingTranslation

Default: `warning`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `warning`, `error`, `ignore`

How to handle missing translations for i18n.

### inlineStyleLanguage

Default: `css`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `css`, `less`, `sass`, `scss`

The stylesheet language to use for the application's inline component styles.

### localize

Type: `boolean | boolean[] `

Translate the bundles in one or more locales.

### namedChunks

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Use file name for lazy loaded chunks.

### ngswConfigPath

Type: `string`

Path to ngsw-config.json.

### optimization

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Enables optimization of the build output. Including minification of scripts and styles, tree-shaking, dead-code elimination, inlining of critical CSS and fonts inlining. For more information, see https://angular.io/guide/workspace-config#optimization-configuration.

### outputHashing

Default: `none`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `none`, `all`, `media`, `bundles`

Define the output filename cache-busting hashing mode.

### poll

Type: `number`

Enable and define the file watching poll time period in milliseconds.

### polyfills

Type: `string`

The full path for the polyfills file, relative to the current workspace.

### preserveSymlinks

Type: `boolean`

Do not use the real path when resolving modules. If unset then will default to `true` if NodeJS option --preserve-symlinks is set.

### progress

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Log progress to the console while building.

### resourcesOutputPath

Type: `string`

The path where style resources will be placed, relative to outputPath.

### scripts

Type: `array`

Global scripts to be included in the build.

### serviceWorker

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generates a service worker config for production builds.

### ~~showCircularDependencies~~

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

**Deprecated:** The recommended method to detect circular dependencies in project code is to use either a lint rule or other external tooling.

Show circular dependency warnings on builds.

### sourceMap

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Output source maps for scripts and styles. For more information, see https://angular.io/guide/workspace-config#source-map-configuration.

### statsJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generates a 'stats.json' file which can be analyzed using tools such as 'webpack-bundle-analyzer'.

### styles

Type: `array`

Global styles to be included in the build.

### subresourceIntegrity

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Enables the use of subresource integrity validation.

### vendorChunk

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate a seperate bundle containing only vendor libraries. This option should only used for development.

### verbose

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Adds more details to output logging.

### watch

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Run build when files change.

### webWorkerTsConfig

Type: `string`

TypeScript configuration for Web Worker modules.
