docs/angular/api-react/generators/application.md, before:

---
title: '@nrwl/react:application generator'
description: 'Create an application'
---

# @nrwl/react:application

Create an application

## Usage

```bash
nx generate application ...
```

```bash
nx g app ... # same
```

By default, Nx will search for `application` in the default collection provisioned in `angular.json`.

You can specify the collection explicitly as follows:

```bash
nx g @nrwl/react:application ...
```

Show what will be generated without writing to disk:

```bash
nx g application ... --dry-run
```

### Examples

Generate apps/myorg/myapp and apps/myorg/myapp-e2e:

```bash
nx g app myapp --directory=myorg
```

Use class components instead of functional components:

```bash
nx g app myapp --classComponent
```

Set up React Router:

```bash
nx g app myapp --routing
```

## Options

### classComponent

Alias(es): C

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Use class components instead of functional component.

### directory

Alias(es): dir

Type: `string`

The directory of the new application.

### e2eTestRunner

Default: `cypress`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `cypress`, `none`

Test runner to use for end to end (e2e) tests.

### globalCss

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Default is false. When true, the component is generated with _.css/_.scss instead of _.module.css/_.module.scss

### js

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate JavaScript files rather than TypeScript files.

### linter

Default: `eslint`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `eslint`, `tslint`

The tool to use for running lint checks.

### name

Type: `string`

The name of the application.

### pascalCaseFiles

Alias(es): P

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Use pascal case component file name (e.g. App.tsx).

### routing

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate application with routes.

### setParserOptionsProject

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether or not to configure the ESLint "parserOptions.project" option. We do not do this by default for lint performance reasons.

### skipFormat

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip formatting files.

### skipWorkspaceJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip updating workspace.json with default options based on values provided to this app (e.g. babel, style).

### standaloneConfig

Type: `boolean`

Split the project configuration into <projectRoot>/project.json rather than including it inside workspace.json

### strict

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Creates an application with strict mode and strict type checking

### style

Alias(es): s

Default: `css`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `css`, `scss`, `styl`, `less`, `styled-components`, `@emotion/styled`, `styled-jsx`, `none`

The file extension to be used for style files.

### tags

Alias(es): t

Type: `string`

Add tags to the application (used for linting).

### unitTestRunner

Default: `jest`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `jest`, `none`

Test runner to use for unit tests.

Commit message:

feat(web): add swc compiler option for webpack executor (#8114)

docs/angular/api-react/generators/application.md, after:

---
title: '@nrwl/react:application generator'
description: 'Create an application'
---

# @nrwl/react:application

Create an application

## Usage

```bash
nx generate application ...
```

```bash
nx g app ... # same
```

By default, Nx will search for `application` in the default collection provisioned in `angular.json`.

You can specify the collection explicitly as follows:

```bash
nx g @nrwl/react:application ...
```

Show what will be generated without writing to disk:

```bash
nx g application ... --dry-run
```

### Examples

Generate apps/myorg/myapp and apps/myorg/myapp-e2e:

```bash
nx g app myapp --directory=myorg
```

Use class components instead of functional components:

```bash
nx g app myapp --classComponent
```

Set up React Router:

```bash
nx g app myapp --routing
```

## Options

### classComponent

Alias(es): C

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Use class components instead of functional component.

### compiler

Default: `babel`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `babel`, `swc`

The compiler to use

### directory

Alias(es): dir

Type: `string`

The directory of the new application.

### e2eTestRunner

Default: `cypress`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `cypress`, `none`

Test runner to use for end to end (e2e) tests.

### globalCss

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Default is false. When true, the component is generated with _.css/_.scss instead of _.module.css/_.module.scss

### js

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate JavaScript files rather than TypeScript files.

### linter

Default: `eslint`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `eslint`, `tslint`

The tool to use for running lint checks.

### name

Type: `string`

The name of the application.

### pascalCaseFiles

Alias(es): P

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Use pascal case component file name (e.g. App.tsx).

### routing

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Generate application with routes.

### setParserOptionsProject

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Whether or not to configure the ESLint "parserOptions.project" option. We do not do this by default for lint performance reasons.

### skipFormat

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip formatting files.

### skipWorkspaceJson

Default: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Skip updating workspace.json with default options based on values provided to this app (e.g. babel, style).

### standaloneConfig

Type: `boolean`

Split the project configuration into <projectRoot>/project.json rather than including it inside workspace.json

### strict

Default: `true`

Type: `boolean`

Creates an application with strict mode and strict type checking

### style

Alias(es): s

Default: `css`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `css`, `scss`, `styl`, `less`, `styled-components`, `@emotion/styled`, `styled-jsx`, `none`

The file extension to be used for style files.

### tags

Alias(es): t

Type: `string`

Add tags to the application (used for linting).

### unitTestRunner

Default: `jest`

Type: `string`

Possible values: `jest`, `none`

Test runner to use for unit tests.
