docs/shared/guides/storybook/migrate-webpack-final-angular.md, before:

# Storybook Webpack Migration

Nx 12.7 as in combination with Storybook v6.3 doesn't need a custom `webpack.config.js` which was previously required and auto-generated by Nx.

Here are the main differences to the previous setups:

- there's no `webpack.config.js`
- custom webpack configurations can be added in the `webpackFinal` property of the `main.js` file

Here's an example of a newly generated `main.js` file:

```javascript
// project-level .storybook/main.js file
const rootMain = require('../../../.storybook/main');

module.exports = {
  ...rootMain,

  core: { ...rootMain.core, builder: 'webpack5' },

  stories: [
    ...rootMain.stories,
    '../src/lib/**/*.stories.mdx',
    '../src/lib/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)',
  ],
  addons: [...rootMain.addons],
  webpackFinal: async (config, { configType }) => {
    // apply any global webpack configs that might have been specified in .storybook/main.js
    if (rootMain.webpackFinal) {
      config = await rootMain.webpackFinal(config, { configType });
    }

    // add your own webpack tweaks if needed

    return config;
  },
};
```

At the Nx workspace root level, the configuration file looks as follows:

```javascript
// root level .storybook/main.js file
module.exports = {
  stories: [],
  addons: ['@storybook/addon-essentials'],
  // uncomment the property below if you want to apply some webpack config globally
  // webpackFinal: async (config, { configType }) => {
  //   // Make whatever fine-grained changes you need that should apply to all storybook configs

  //   // Return the altered config
  //   return config;
  // },
};
```

## Migrating

If you're upgrading from a lower version of Nx, your old Storybook configuration will still work. New configurations generated will use the new syntax as shown above. The newly generated code will also make sure to extend from a global `webpack.config.js` which might exist in the root-level `.storybook/` directory of your Nx workspace.

This gives you the flexibility to incrementally migrate your configurations.

Here's the step-by-step migration process:

### 1. adjust the `main.js` file

Restructure your `main.js` file s.t. it looks like in the example illustrated above.

If you need to keep your root-level `.storybook/webpack.config.js` for now, then make sure you adjust the `main.js` in a way that it properly calls the root-level `webpack.config.js` to inherit all of the global configurations.

```javascript
const rootMain = require('../../../.storybook/main');
const rootWebpackConfig = require('../../../.storybook/webpack.config');

module.exports = {
  ...rootMain,
  ...
  webpackFinal: async (config) => {
    // for backwards compatibility call the `rootWebpackConfig`
    // this can be removed once that one is migrated fully to
    // use the `webpackFinal` property in the `main.js` file
    config = rootWebpackConfig({ config });

    // add your own webpack tweaks if needed

    return config;
  },
};
```

**Note:** The easiest way is probably to generate a new library and Storybook configuration and then copy & paste the `main.js`.

### 2. Move any custom webpack configuration to `webpackFinal`

In previous versions of Nx a custom `webpack.config.js` was generated with the following content:

```javascript
const TsconfigPathsPlugin = require('tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin');
const rootWebpackConfig = require('../../../.storybook/webpack.config');
/**
 * Export a function. Accept the base config as the only param.
 *
 * @param {Parameters<typeof rootWebpackConfig>[0]} options
 */
module.exports = async ({ config, mode }) => {
  config = await rootWebpackConfig({ config, mode });

  const tsPaths = new TsconfigPathsPlugin({
    configFile: './tsconfig.base.json',
  });

  config.resolve.plugins
    ? config.resolve.plugins.push(tsPaths)
    : (config.resolve.plugins = [tsPaths]);

  return config;
};
```

Such webpack file is no more needed as Storybook v6.3+ has proper TypeScript support already built-in now.

In case you made custom modifications to the `webpack.config.js` file, you need to move them over to the `main.js` `webpackFinal` property and then delete the `webpack.config.js`.

### 3. Remove the root-level `.storybook/webpack.config.js` file

Once you've migrated all your libraries, you can think about removing the root-level `.storybook/webpack.config.js` file and migrate any custom configuration there to `.storybook/main.js` `webpackFinal` property in the very same folder.

Commit message:

docs(storybook): prompt user to install webpack5 deps (#10882)

docs/shared/guides/storybook/migrate-webpack-final-angular.md, after:

# Storybook Webpack Migration

Nx 12.7 as in combination with Storybook v6.3 doesn't need a custom `webpack.config.js` which was previously required and auto-generated by Nx.

Here are the main differences to the previous setups:

- there's no `webpack.config.js`
- custom webpack configurations can be added in the `webpackFinal` property of the `main.js` file

Here's an example of a newly generated `main.js` file:

```javascript
// project-level .storybook/main.js file
const rootMain = require('../../../.storybook/main');

module.exports = {
  ...rootMain,

  core: { ...rootMain.core, builder: 'webpack5' },

  stories: [
    ...rootMain.stories,
    '../src/lib/**/*.stories.mdx',
    '../src/lib/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)',
  ],
  addons: [...rootMain.addons],
  webpackFinal: async (config, { configType }) => {
    // apply any global webpack configs that might have been specified in .storybook/main.js
    if (rootMain.webpackFinal) {
      config = await rootMain.webpackFinal(config, { configType });
    }

    // add your own webpack tweaks if needed

    return config;
  },
};
```

At the Nx workspace root level, the configuration file looks as follows:

```javascript
// root level .storybook/main.js file
module.exports = {
  stories: [],
  addons: ['@storybook/addon-essentials'],
  // uncomment the property below if you want to apply some webpack config globally
  // webpackFinal: async (config, { configType }) => {
  //   // Make whatever fine-grained changes you need that should apply to all storybook configs

  //   // Return the altered config
  //   return config;
  // },
};
```

## Migrating

If you're upgrading from a lower version of Nx, your old Storybook configuration will still work. New configurations generated will use the new syntax as shown above. The newly generated code will also make sure to extend from a global `webpack.config.js` which might exist in the root-level `.storybook/` directory of your Nx workspace.

This gives you the flexibility to incrementally migrate your configurations.

Here's the step-by-step migration process:

### 1. adjust the `main.js` file

Restructure your `main.js` file so that it looks like in the example illustrated above.

If you need to keep your root-level `.storybook/webpack.config.js` for now, then make sure you adjust the `main.js` in a way that it properly calls the root-level `webpack.config.js` to inherit all of the global configurations.

```javascript
const rootMain = require('../../../.storybook/main');
const rootWebpackConfig = require('../../../.storybook/webpack.config');

module.exports = {
  ...rootMain,
  ...
  webpackFinal: async (config) => {
    // for backwards compatibility call the `rootWebpackConfig`
    // this can be removed once that one is migrated fully to
    // use the `webpackFinal` property in the `main.js` file
    config = rootWebpackConfig({ config });

    // add your own webpack tweaks if needed

    return config;
  },
};
```

**Note:** The easiest way is probably to generate a new library and Storybook configuration and then copy & paste the `main.js`.

### 2. Move any custom webpack configuration to `webpackFinal`

In previous versions of Nx a custom `webpack.config.js` was generated with the following content:

```javascript
const TsconfigPathsPlugin = require('tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin');
const rootWebpackConfig = require('../../../.storybook/webpack.config');
/**
 * Export a function. Accept the base config as the only param.
 *
 * @param {Parameters<typeof rootWebpackConfig>[0]} options
 */
module.exports = async ({ config, mode }) => {
  config = await rootWebpackConfig({ config, mode });

  const tsPaths = new TsconfigPathsPlugin({
    configFile: './tsconfig.base.json',
  });

  config.resolve.plugins
    ? config.resolve.plugins.push(tsPaths)
    : (config.resolve.plugins = [tsPaths]);

  return config;
};
```

Such webpack file is no more needed as Storybook v6.3+ has proper TypeScript support already built-in now.

In case you made custom modifications to the `webpack.config.js` file, you need to move them over to the `main.js` `webpackFinal` property and then delete the `webpack.config.js`.

### 3. Remove the root-level `.storybook/webpack.config.js` file

Once you've migrated all your libraries, you can think about removing the root-level `.storybook/webpack.config.js` file and migrate any custom configuration there to `.storybook/main.js` `webpackFinal` property in the very same folder.

### 4. Opting in to Webpack 5

If you choose to opt-in to Webpack 5, by specifying `builder: 'webpack5'` in your project's `.storybook/main.(js|ts)` (as shown above, in the example of a newly generated `main.js` file), don't forget to add the Storybook dependencies for Webpack 5 to work:

```shell
yarn add -D @storybook/builder-webpack5 @storybook/manager-webpack5
```

or if you're using `npm`:

```shell
npm install --save-dev @storybook/builder-webpack5 @storybook/manager-webpack5
```
