# Environment Variables

- `NX_BRANCH` - The `@nrwl/nx-cloud` requires the `NX_BRANCH` environment variables to be set. For many CI providers (e.g., GitHub Actions), the runner is able to set it automatically. For others, the variable will have to be set manually. If you set it manually, note that `NX_BRANCH` has to be set to a PR number for the GitHub integration to work.
- `NX_CLOUD_ACCESS_TOKEN` - You can also configure the access token by setting the `NX_CLOUD_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment variable. `NX_CLOUD_ACCESS_TOKEN` takes precedence over the accessToken property. It's common to have a read-only token stored in `nx.json` and a read-write token set via `NX_CLOUD_ACCESS_TOKEN` in CI.
- `NX_CLOUD_DISTRIBUTED_EXECUTION_AGENT_COUNT` - Setting `NX_CLOUD_DISTRIBUTED_EXECUTION_AGENT_COUNT` to say 8 will tell Nx Cloud assume that there are 8 agents running.
- `NX_CLOUD_DISTRIBUTED_EXECUTION_STOP_AGENTS_ON_FAILURE` - Setting `NX_CLOUD_DISTRIBUTED_EXECUTION_STOP_AGENTS_ON_FAILURE` to true will tell Nx Cloud not to stop agents if a command fails. You need to make sure to invoke nx-cloud stop-all-agents even if CI fails.
- `NX_CLOUD_DISTRIBUTED_EXECUTION` - Setting `NX_CLOUD_DISTRIBUTED_EXECUTION` to true enables distributed task execution.
- `NX_CLOUD_ENCRYPTION_KEY` - You can set the `encryptionKey` property in `nx.json` or set the `NX_CLOUD_ENCRYPTION_KEY` environment variable to enable the e2e encryption of your artifacts. In this case, the artifacts will be encrypted/encrypted on your machine.
- `NX_CLOUD_ENV_NAME` - Setting `NX_CLOUD_ENV_NAME` will prefix all your commands so you can easily distinguish them in the UI and in GitHub comments. For instance, if you run the same set of commands on Windows and Linux machines, you can set `NX_CLOUD_ENV_NAME` to win on the Windows agent, and linux on Linux agents.
- `NX_CLOUD_NO_TIMEOUTS` - By default, Nx Cloud requests will time out after 10 seconds. `NX_CLOUD_NO_TIMEOUTS` disables the timeout.
- `NX_VERBOSE_LOGGING` - Setting `NX_VERBOSE_LOGGING` to true will output the debug information about agents communicating with the main job. This can be useful for debugging unexpected cache misses, and issues with Nx Private Cloud setups.
